Add article on new template output (#25092)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/tutorials/top-level-templates.md

---
title: "Template changes in .NET 6"
description: The console app template now uses top level statements. Understand what's different from learning resources created before this change.
ms.date: 07/13/2021
---
# New templates generate top level statements

Starting with the .NET 6 Preview 7 SDK, the console app template generates the following code:

```csharp
Console.WriteLine("Hello, World!");
// See https://aka.ms/new-console-template for more information
```

The new output leverages two recent C# features that simplify the code you need to write for a program.  Traditionally, the console template generated the following code:

```csharp
using System;
using System.Collections.Generic;
using System.Linq;

namespace MyApp // Note: actual namespace depended on the project name.
{
    public class Program
    {
        public static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Hello World!");
        }
    }
}
```

## Understand the new program

The two features that make the new program simpler are top level statements and global usings.

> [Top-level statements](../../csharp/fundamentals/program-structure/top-level-statements.md) means the compiler generates the namespace, class, and method elements for your main program. You can look at the code for the new application and imagine that it contains the statements inside the `Main` method generated by earlier templates. You can add more statements to the program, just like you can add more statements to your `Main` method in the traditional style. You can even add functions. They are generated as local functions nested inside the generated `Main` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Top-level statements](../../csharp/fundamentals/program-structure/top-level-statements.md) means the compiler generates the namespace, class, and method elements for your main program. You can look at the code for the new application and imagine that it contains the statements inside the `Main` method generated by earlier templates. You can add more statements to the program, just like you can add more statements to your `Main` method in the traditional style. You can even add functions. They are created as local functions nested inside the generated `Main` method.
```

> Global usings means the compiler imports a set of namespaces based on the project type. For console applications, the following namespaces are imported:
> 
> - `System`
> - `System.Collections.Generic`
> - `System.Linq`
> - `System.Net.Http`
> - `System.Net.Http.Json`
> 
> These namespaces are imported for every source file in the application. Other application types will include additional namespaces that are common for that application type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Global usings* means the compiler automatically imports a set of [`using` directives](../../csharp/language-reference/keywords/using-directive.md) based on the project type. For console applications, the following directives are implicitly included in every source file in the application:

- `using System;`
- `using System.Collections.Generic;`
- `using System.Linq;`
- `using System.Net.Http;`
- `using System.Net.Http.Json;`

Other application types include additional namespaces that are common for those application types.
```

> Combined, these two features simplify the code that makes up your application. You can concentrate on the code that runs your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These two features simplify the code that makes up your application.
```

---
title: "Template changes in .NET 6"
description: The console app template now uses top-level statements. Understand what's changed and how to use existing learning materials with the new program.
ms.date: 07/13/2021
---
# New templates generate top-level statements

Starting with the .NET 6 Preview 7 SDK, the console app template generates the following code:

```csharp
Console.WriteLine("Hello, World!");

> // See https://aka.ms/new-console-template for more information

Reviewer 2: [This URL](https://aka.ms/new-console-template) doesn't go anywhere meaningful yet, is that intentional?

Author: Yes. It will go to this article once published.  (This article will be live before preview 7 goes public)

```

> The new output uses recent C# features that simplify the code you need to write for a program.  Traditionally, the console template generated the following code:

Reviewer 3: One space

```suggestion
The new output uses recent C# features that simplify the code you need to write for a program. Traditionally, the console template generated the following code:
```

> The new output uses two recent C# features that simplify the code you need to write for a program.  Traditionally, the console template generated the following code:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The new output uses recent C# features that simplify the code you need to write for a program.  Traditionally, the console template generated the following code:
```

```csharp
using System;
using System.Collections.Generic;
using System.Linq;

namespace MyApp // Note: actual namespace depends on the project name.
{
    public class Program
    {
        public static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Hello World!");
        }
    }
}
```

> These two forms represent the same program. Both are valid with C# 10.0.  When you use the newer version, you only need to write the body of the `Main` method. You don't need to include the other program elements. You have two options to work with existing tutorials:

Reviewer 3: One space

```suggestion
These two forms represent the same program. Both are valid with C# 10.0. When you use the newer version, you only need to write the body of the `Main` method. You don't need to include the other program elements. You have two options to work with existing tutorials:
```

> These two forms represent the same program. Both are valid with C# 10.0.  When you use the newer version, you need to write the body of the `Main` method. You don't need to write the other program elements by hand. You have two options you can follow with existing tutorials:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
These two forms represent the same program. Both are valid with C# 10.0.  When you use the newer version, you only need to write the body of the `Main` method. You don't need to include the other program elements. You have two options to work with existing tutorials:
```

If they used the previous template, they did not write the code by hand

> - Use the new program style, adding new top-level statements as you add features

Reviewer 4: I don't think "top-level statements" will become a way to describe these statements. I suspect they will just be statements. I'm not sure this is quite right. There may be a third way.:

```suggestion
- Use the new program style, just including the code that makes up your application
```

- Convert the new program style to the older style, with a `Program` class and a `Main` method.

## Use the new program style

> The two features that make the new program simpler are top-level statements and global usings.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The features that make the new program simpler are top-level statements, global usings, and implicit usings.
```

Implicit usings and global usings are different features. You can turn off implicit usings without affecting global usings.
